Digital Assets > Overview & Tokens > Standards (#3074)
dfinity/portal: docs/developer-docs/defi/icp-tokens/ledger-local-setup.mdx

<MarkdownChipRow labels={["Intermediate" , "Tutorial"]} />

## Overview

> The Internet Computer Protocol (ICP) implements management of its utility token (ticker "ICP") using a specialized canister, called the **ledger canister**. There is a single ledger canister which runs alongside other canisters on a special subnet of the Internet Computer - the NNS subnet. The ledger canister is a smart contract that holds **accounts** and **transactions**. These transactions either **mint ICP tokens** for accounts, **transfer ICP tokens** from one account to another, or **burn ICP tokens**, eliminating them from existence, while converting ICP tokens to cycles. The ledger canister maintains a traceable history of all transactions starting from its genesis state (initial state).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Internet Computer Protocol (ICP) implements management of its utility token (ticker "ICP") using a specialized canister, called the **ICP ledger canister**. There is a single ledger canister which runs alongside other canisters on a special subnet of the Internet Computer - the NNS subnet. The ICP ledger canister is a smart contract that holds **blocks** with each containing a single transaction. These transactions either **mint ICP tokens** for accounts, **transfer ICP tokens** from one account to another, **burn ICP tokens** eliminating them from existence, **approve ICP tokens** to be spent by some other accountidentifier or **transfer ICP from** a previously approved accountidentifier. The ICP ledger canister maintains a traceable history of all transactions starting from its genesis state (initial state).
```

> As state changes are recorded, each new transaction is placed in a block and assigned a unique index. The entire chain is regularly signed by the network. The signature used to authenticate the chain can be verified by any third party who has access to the root public key of the Internet Computer. Specific transactions can be retrieved by querying the ledger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each new transaction is placed into a block and each block is associated with a monotonically increasing unique index. The entire chain is regularly signed by the network. The signature used to authenticate the chain can be verified by any third party who has access to the root public key of the Internet Computer. Specific transactions can be retrieved by querying the ICP ledger for blocks.
```

> If you are working in a local development environment, i.e. with a local replica instead of the public Internet Computer, you can't access the ICP ledger. In order to test your application that integrates with the ICP ledger locally, you need to deploy a local ledger canister. However, this local ledger canister won't have the history and balances of the live ICP ledger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are working in a local development environment, i.e. with a local replica instead of the public Internet Computer, you can't access the ICP ledger running on mainnet. In order to test your application that integrates with the ICP ledger locally, you need to deploy a local ledger canister or install the nns locally through dfx. However, this local ledger canister won't have the history and balances of the live ICP ledger.
```

## Architecture

### Accounts

> A ledger account belongs to and is controlled by the account owner who must be a valid principal ID. No account can be owned by two or more principals (no "joint accounts"). However, since a principal can refer to an external user as well as to a canister, joint accounts can be implemented as canisters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An ICP ledger account (see ICRC-1 standard) belongs to and is controlled by the account owner who must be a valid principal ID. No account can be owned by two or more principals (no "joint accounts"). However, since a principal can refer to an external user as well as to a canister, joint accounts can be implemented as canisters.
```

> An account on the ledger uses an `AccountIdentifier`, which is derived from the principal ID and subaccount identifier. The subaccount is an optional bitstring which helps distinguish between the different sub-accounts of the same owner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An account on the ledger is represented and stored as an `AccountIdentifier`, which is derived from the principal ID and subaccount identifier by computing a hash of the two.  The subaccount is an optional bitstring which helps distinguish between the different sub-accounts of the same owner.
```

<MarkdownChipRow labels={["Intermediate" , "Tutorial"]} />

## Overview

The Internet Computer Protocol (ICP) implements management of its utility token (ticker "ICP") using a specialized canister, called the **ledger canister**. There is a single ledger canister which runs alongside other canisters on a special subnet of the Internet Computer - the NNS subnet. The ledger canister is a smart contract that holds **accounts** and **transactions**. These transactions either **mint ICP tokens** for accounts, **transfer ICP tokens** from one account to another, or **burn ICP tokens**, eliminating them from existence, e.g. while converting ICP tokens to cycles. The ledger canister maintains a traceable history of all transactions starting from its genesis state (initial state).

> The ledger maintains the transactions as a hashed blockchain, i.e., a blockchain running inside a canister smart contract (the ledger canister), which in turn is running on the NNS subnet blockchain.

Author: Removed this sentence, I do not think it is necessary. 

I will note that this page hasn't been edited in yet- that task is assigned to Nikolas from the FI team. I made some adjustments to other content on the Overview page and wanted to preserve this detailed information that didn't fit in the Overview.

As state changes are recorded, each new transaction is placed in a block and assigned a unique index. The entire chain is regularly authenticated by signing the latest chain link. The signature used to authenticate the chain can be verified by any third party who has access to the root public key of the Internet Computer. Specific transactions can be retrieved by querying the ledger.

If you are working in a local development environment, i.e. with a local replica instead of the public Internet Computer, you can't access the ICP ledger. In order to test your application that integrates with the ICP ledger locally, you need to deploy a local ledger canister. However, this local ledger canister won't have the history and balances of the live ICP ledger.

## Architecture

### Accounts

An account belongs to and is controlled by the account owner who must be a valid principal ID. No account can be owned by two or more principals (no "joint accounts"). However, since a principal can refer to an external user as well as to a canister, joint accounts can be implemented as canisters.

> An account owner may control more than one account. In this case, each account corresponds to a pair (account_owner, sub_account). The sub-account is an optional bitstring which helps distinguish between the different sub-accounts of the same owner.

Author: Revised this paragraph

> An account on the ledger is identified by its `AccountIdentifier`, which is derived from the principal ID and sub-account identifier.

Reviewer 2: "An account on the ledger is identified by its `AccountIdentifier`" this sounds a bit tautological: "account is identified by account identifier".

The part about principal id and sub-account identifier repeats the previous paragraph.

Author: Revised this section

> In this context, you can think of principal identifiers as a rough equivalent to the hash of a user’s public key for Bitcoin or Ethereum. You use the corresponding secret key to sign messages and therefore authenticate to the ledger canister and operate on the principal’s account. Canisters can also have accounts in the ledger canister, in which case the address is derived from the canister’s principal.

Author: Revised this section

> The ledger canister is initialized using administrative operations that are internal to the Internet Computer. As part of the initialization process, the canister is created with the set of accounts and associated ICP token balances.

Author: Removed this paragraph

:::info Why does the ledger use `AccountIdentifier`s and not just Principal IDs?

> The main reason for introducing accounts was to allow a principal to control multiple accounts. While this could be abstracted away for a user by a the wallet software, this is not possible for canisters.

Author: Making a note to follow up with Nikolas about this during his overhaul of this page
